Update Rule “do-you-have-separate-development-testing-and-production-environments/rule” (#7034)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/do-you-have-separate-development-testing-and-production-environments/rule.md

<!--endintro-->

# What is each environment for?

* **Production**: Real data being used by real customers
* **Staging**: 'Production-like' data.  Used for testing and verification before deploying to Production.  Should have 'production-like' access (i.e. avoid giving devs admin rights).  Should generally have the same specs as production (especially during performance testing).  However, this is not always the case due to cost implications.
* **Test**: Internal environment used by the development team.  Hosted in the same place as the Staging & Production environments.  Access usually not provided to the client.
* **Ephemeral**: Special environment that is spun up on demand for testing of a branch.
* **Development**: Developer environment running on their local machine.  Also, sometimes called 'Local'.

![Figure: Environment flow](ssw-rules-environments.jpg "Environment flow")

> # Large or Multi-Team Projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Large or Multi-Team Projects
```
Can you make these H2s? There should only be one H1 per page (for SEO)

---
type: rule
title: Do you have separate development, testing, and production environments?
uri: do-you-have-separate-development-testing-and-production-environments
authors:
  - title: Adam Cogan
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/adam-cogan
  - title: Daniel Mackay
    url: https://ssw.com.au/people/daniel-mackay
related:
  - do-you-identify-development-test-and-production-crm-web-servers-by-colors
  - azure-resources-creating
  - apply-tags-to-your-azure-resource-groups
  - do-you-identify-development-test-and-production-crm-web-servers-by-colors
  - do-you-always-rename-staging-url-on-azure
redirects: []
created: 2009-03-10T07:02:13.000Z
archivedreason: null
guid: 616246d0-1675-4c1c-b4b0-d4352fe818e1
---
It is important to separate production and non-production environments. Some companies skip the non-production environments because it can be a hassle to copy new files, register DLLs and deploy backend changes. This will usually result in higher support costs and unhappy users due to simple bugs that could have been found in testing.  

<!--endintro-->

## What is each environment for?

* **Production**: Real data being used by real customers

> * **Staging**: 'Production-like' data.  Used for testing and verification before deploying to Production.  Should have 'production-like' access (i.e. avoid giving devs admin rights).  Should generally have the same specs as production (especially during performance testing).  However, this is not always the case due to cost implications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Staging**: 'Production-like' environment used for final sign-off.  Used for testing and verification before deploying to Production.  Should be as close to Production as possible e.g. access (avoid giving devs admin rights), same specs as production (especially during performance testing).  However, this is not always the case due to cost implications
```

> * **Test**: Internal environment used by the development team.  Hosted in the same place as the Staging & Production environments.  Access usually not provided to the client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Test**: A place to verify code changes. Typically simpler or under-specified version of Staging or Production environments aiding in the early identification and troubleshooting of issues.
```
> Internal environment used by the development team.
> Access usually not provided to the client
I'm not sure about these comments, why does it need to be so prescriptive

Reviewer 3: The client still has access to the dev/test environments (they're paying for it). We give them the understanding that this environment is for the dev team's test purposes and that there is no guarantee that this is a stable environment.

Author: Have removed the comment about client access to 'Test' as per the suggestion from @wicksipedia.

> * **Ephemeral**: Special environment that is spun up on demand for testing of a branch

Reviewer 3: Short-lived environment that is spun up on demand for isolated testing of a branch, and then torn down when the branch is merged or deleted.

We have a rule for ephemeral environments that you can link to: https://www.ssw.com.au/rules/ephemeral-environments/

Author: Have updated as per your comment.

* **Development**: Developer environment running on their local machine.  Also, sometimes called 'Local'

![Figure: Environment flow](ssw-rules-environments.jpg "Environment flow")

### Large or Multi-Team Projects

> For large projects it's recommended to run 3 hosted environments + 1 local:

Reviewer 3: Most of the projects over the years have stuck to the following designations:

Hosted: 
* Production (prod)
* Staging (stage)/(staging)
* Devlopment (dev)

Local:
* Local (localhost)

I'd recommend sticking to the list above to be consistent with our real-life projects.

There has been some projects with QA, UA, Test, SIT, PP, PreProd environment designations. Perhaps your rule can include a statement that starting with the simple set of environments is good, and then there can be more environments added when needed for specific processes.
